.TH OLED SCANFS 8 "May 2023" "Oracle Linux Enhanced Diagnostics" "0.5"

.SH NAME
oled scanfs - Scan KVM images for corruption. Supports XFS and EXT4 filesystems.

.SH SYNOPSIS
oled scanfs [-h] [-c | -s] directory_path

.SH DESCRIPTION
The scanfs tool takes the path to image files as an argument and scans the XFS and
EXT4 volumes from these images for corruption. The tool takes all the image files under
the given directory path and creates a reflink copy of these image files. Once the
reflink copy is done, it creates loop devices for these files and adds all partitions
and volume groups, renames all the volume groups including the ones that conflict with
the host and scans all the XFS and EXT4 volumes using xfs_repair and e2fsck.

Sample output:

Scanfs 1.0


Setting up
setting up - Volume1.img
setting up - Volume2.img
Setup Complete

Checking XFS Filesystems
Scanning /dev/Scan037871-VG/Home
Scanning /dev/Scan037871-VG/Root
Scanning /dev/Scan037871-VG/Sys
Scanning /dev/mapper/loop0p1

Checking EXT4 Filesystems

Cleaning up
Cleanup complete.

Check /EXAVMIMAGES/bug34037871/Scanfs-2023-06-28T09-25-36/summary for more details

Corruption found in these volumes:

************************************

xfs - /dev/Scan037871-VG/Sys

************************************

The output shows the location to log file, which holds more details on the images and
corruption. It lists out the volumes that it finds to be corrupt.

This tool also supports setup and cleanup - see OPTIONS for more details.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
-h, --help
    Displays a help message with all the valid options that
can be passed to the tool.

.TP
-s, --setup
    Do not scan the volumes, just sets up the loop devices, partitions and volume
groups and exit. It displays all the images that are set up.

.TP
-c, --cleanup
    Cleanup the already setup environment. Deactivates VGs and remove partition
mappings and loop devices. It shows the reflink images left behind that might
need to be purged.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.TP
Please contact Oracle Linux Support to report any bugs for OLED tools.

.SH AUTHOR
.TP
Srikanth C S <srikanth.c.s@oracle.com>
