.TH oled lkce 1 "Jul 2020" "0.5"

.SH NAME
oled lkce \- Linux Kernel Core Extractor

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB oled lkce\fR [report \fIreport-options\fR] [configure \fIconfig-options\fR] [enable|disable|status] [clean|list|help]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlkce command\fR is used to interact with Linux Kernel Core Extractor[LKCE]. It is used to generate report from vmcore. lkce can run user scripts in kdump kernel. 

Once configured it can generate a report from a kdump kernel when system crashes. This is useful if the size of vmcore is too large to copy or send across for analysis or when generating vmcore is not preferred.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fBreport <report-options>\fR
.RS 3
report-options:
.RE
.RS 3
\fB\-\-vmcore=\fI/path/to/vmcore\fR	- path to vmcore file for report generation [Required]
.RE
.RS 3
[\fB\-\-vmlinux=\fI/path/to/vmlinux\fR]	- use this vmlinux instead of already configured value
.RE
.RS 3
[\fB\-\-crash_cmds=\fIcmd1,cmd2,...\fR]	- comma seperated crash cmds to be used in report generation instead of configured commands
.RE
.RS 3
[\fB\-\-outfile=\fI/path/to/outfile\fR]	- write output to outfile. By default output goes to stdout
.RE

.TP
\fBconfigure --default\fR - Configure with default values overwriting the existing.
.TP
\fBconfigure [--show]\fR  - Show the configured values. This is default when no config-options are given.

.TP
\fBconfigure [config-options]\fR - other possible options
.RS 3
config-options:
.RE
.RS 3
[\fB\-\-vmlinux_path=\fI/path/to/vmlinux\fR]  - set vmliux_path to given value
.RE
.RS 3
[\fB\-\-crash_cmds_file=\fI/path/to/file\fR]  - set crash_cmds_file to given value
.RE
.RS 3
[\fB\-\-kdump_report=\fIyes/no\fR]  	- set kdump_report to given value
.RE
.RS 3
[\fB\-\-vmcore=\fIyes/no\fR]	- set vmcore to given value. Controls vmcore generation in kdump kernel.
.RE
.RS 3
[\fB\-\-max_out_files=\fI<number>\fR]	- set max_out_files to given value
.RE

.TP
\fBenable\fR - enable lkce to run user scripts in kdump kernel.

.TP
\fBdisable\fR - disable lkce to run user scripts in kdump kernel.

.TP
\fBstatus\fR - check the status of lkce configuration

.TP
\fBclean\fR - remove all but last 3 kdump_report files.

.TP
\fBclean --all\fR - remove all the kdump_report files.

.TP
\fBlist\fR - list the kdump_report files.

.SH HOW TO SETUP LKCE TO GENERATE KDUMP REPORT:
Make sure kexec-tools pkg is installed and you can generate vmcore. Post that run below commands:
.RS 0
# yum install oled-tools
.RE
.RS 0
# oled lkce enable
.RE

Crash the system manually. Once the machine is booted run 'oled lkce list'. Verify the listed file for output. Keep the system in configured state to generate the report when it crashes.

.SH EXAMPLES
.RS 0
# oled lkce report --vmcore=/var/crash/127.0.0.1-2020-12-29-17\:17\:45/vmcore
.RE
.RS 0
# oled lkce report --vmcore=/var/crash/127.0.0.1-2020-12-29-17\:17\:45/vmcore --crash_cmds=bt,sys
.RE
.RS 0
# oled lkce report --vmcore=/var/crash/127.0.0.1-2020-12-29-17\:17\:45/vmcore --crash_cmds=bt,sys --outfile=/tmp/outfile.txt
.RE

.RS 0
# oled lkce configure --default
.RE
.RS 0
# oled lkce configure --show
.RE
.RS 0
# oled lkce configure --vmlinux_path=/usr/lib/debug/lib/modules/4.14.35-1902.3.1.el7uek.x86_64/vmlinux
.RE
.RS 0
# oled lkce configure --kdump_report=yes
.RE

# oled lkce help
.RE
.RS 0
# oled lkce enable
.RE
.RS 0
# oled lkce disable
.RE
.RS 0
# oled lkce status
.RE

.RS 0
# oled lkce clean
.RE
.RS 0
# oled lkce list
.RE

.SH MISC
.TP
kdump kernel is a secondary kernel used to collect the memory image[vmcore] of the first kernel when system crashes. kexec-tools pkg is used to configure the kdump kernel.

.TP
LKCE provides an environment inside kdump kernel to run user scrips. kdump_report is one such user script used here to generate the vmcore report when the system crashes. LKCE links with kdump[of kexec-tools] service as kdump_pre hook to run scripts inside kdump kernel.

.SH AUTHOR
.TP
Manjunath Patil <manjunath.b.patil@oracle.com>

.SH FILES
.TP
/etc/oled/lkce/lkce.conf
