.TH OLED VMCORE_SZ 8 "Sep 2023" "Oracle Linux Enhanced Diagnostics"

.SH NAME
oled vmcore_sz - Estimating vmcore size before kernel dump.

.SH SYNOPSIS
oled vmcore_sz [-h] [-d DUMP_LEVEL] 

.SH DESCRIPTION
The vmcore_sz takes the dump_level as an argument and estimates the
vmcore size if a kernel dump is obtained at that moment. It displays
the total number of pages, pages need to be excluded depending on
the dump level and the expected VMcore size in bytes. If the dump
level is not specified, the default configured in "/etc/kdump.conf"
will be used.

oled vmcore_sz takes dump level (in range 0 to 31) as an argument
to display the expected VMcore size in bytes.

.SH EXAMPLE
#oled vmcore_sz
.PP
Dump level is not specified. Using default/configured - [31]
.PP
----------------------------------------------
.br
Dump level = 31
.br
Exclude zero pages : 56568
.br
Exclude non private cache : 1594405
.br
Exclude private cache : 34
.br
Exclude user pages : 143813
.br
Exclude free pages : 2076424
.PP
Total Pages : 4134552
.br
Pages to be dumped : 263308
.PP
----------------------------------------------
.br
Expected vmcore size in bytes : 1078509568
.br
----------------------------------------------
.br

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
-h, --help
	Displays a help message for vmvmcore_sz command.

.TP
-d DUMP_LEVEL, --dump_level DUMP_LEVEL
	Calculate vmcore size based on user provided DUMP_LEVEL. DUMP_LEVEL is an integer in range 0..31

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.TP
	Please contact Oracle Linux Support to report any bugs for OLED tools.

.SH AUTHOR
.TP
	Partha Sarathi Satapathy <partha.satapathy@oracle.com>

.SH CO-AUTHOR
.TP
	Srikanth C S <srikanth.c.s@oracle.com>
