.TH OLED DENTRYCACHE 8 "Jul 2021" "Oracle Linux Enhanced Diagnostics" "0.5"

.SH NAME
oled dentrycache - Lists a sample of file paths which have active dentries
in the dentry hash table. 

.SH SYNOPSIS
oled dentrycache [-l] [-n] [-k] [-h] [-v]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The dentrycache tool can be used to debug the issue of large dentry slab
caches, and to get an idea of what kind of files have been accessed,
for the dentry slab cache to bloat.

The tool dumps file paths associated with active dentries, on live systems.
By default, it lists 10000 dentry paths - one dentry per line. These are not
sorted or in any particular order.

Note that this command is only supported on UEK4, UEK5 and UEK6 kernels on
the x86-64 architecture.

Sample output:
.TS
l l l .
00000001 /var/tmp/.4091917356_dOeSnotExist_.db (negative)
00000002 /etc/pki/nssdb/.4081046580_dOeSnotExist_.db (negative)
00000003 /etc/pki/nssdb/.4091456181_dOeSnotExist_.db (negative)
00000004 /etc/pki/nssdb/.4092693512_dOeSnotExist_.db (negative)
00000005 /var/tmp/.680628186_dOeSnotExist_.db (negative)
.TE
\&...\&

The first column is just an index for the output.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
-h, --help
    Displays a help message with all the valid options that
can be passed to the tool.

.TP
-l, --limit
    Maximum number of dentries, to list. The default is 10000.

.TP
-n, --negative
    Only list negative dentries. Negative dentries are those that correspond
to files that do not exist. For instance, if a user/application looks up a file
that does not exist (but does not create said file), then that will create a
negative dentry. By default, this is disabled.

.TP
-k, --kexec
    Run in kexec kernel mode - i.e., when the production kernel crashes and
reboots into the kexec kernel. Here, the kdump kernel should be the same binary
as the production kernel.

.TP
-v, --version
    Display version information.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.TP
Please contact Oracle Linux Support to report any bugs for OLED tools.

.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
oled filecache
