.TH OLED FILECACHE 8 "Jul 2021" "Oracle Linux Enhanced Diagnostics"

.SH NAME
oled filecache - List the paths of the biggest files present in the page cache.

.SH SYNOPSIS
oled filecache [-n] [-m] [-u] [-k] [-h] [-v]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The filecache tool lists the files that are present in the page cache of the
system where it's run, and sorts the output in descending order based on size,
where size is the number of pages present in the page cache (and not the size
of the file on disk).

The page cache can hold too many small files, but most of them are not very
interesting for debug purposes since they don't use too much memory.

Note that this command is only supported on UEK4, UEK5 and UEK6 kernels on
the x86-64 architecture.

Sample output:
.TS
l l l l .
PAGES    SIZE      FS_TYPE   FILE
-----    ----      -------   ----
4716454  17.99GB   xfs       /root/ritiksri/System.first.boot.21.1.0.0.0.200910.img
809907   3.09GB    xfs       /root/ritiksri/System.tar.gz
533562   2.04GB    xfs       /var/oled/memstate.log
157032   613.41MB  xfs       /var/log/messages-20210321
156009   609.41MB  xfs       /var/log/messages-20210328
155974   609.27MB  xfs       /var/log/messages-20210314
155236   606.39MB  xfs       /var/log/messages-20210404
.TE
\&...\&

The output is one line per file, and consists of the number of pages of that
file that are in the page cache, the total size, file name and filesystem
type.

The tool takes two parameters that control the number of file names to dump:
--topn \fIMAX_FILES\fR and --min \fIMIN_PAGES\fR. The parameter \fIMAX_FILES\fR
is a limit on the maximum number of files that will be listed in the output. By
default, this is set to 50. The parameter \fIMIN_PAGES\fR is the minimum number
of pages (of a given file) that must be present in the page cache - only files
with at least \fIMIN_PAGES\fR pages in the cache are listed in the tool's
output. By default, this is 1000.

On a NUMA-enabled system, the memory used to cache all/part of a file can be
allocated from any NUMA node, and often we might want to know how the
allocations are divided across the NUMA nodes. The option -u will also dump
that data. This option is not valid if NUMA is not enabled on that system.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
-h, --help
    Displays a help message with all the valid options that
can be passed to the tool.

.TP
-n, --topn \fIMAX_FILES\fR
    Maximum number of files that will be listed, in the output. This will
be sorted in descending order, so the biggest \fIMAX_FILES\fR files in the page
cache will be listed. The default is 50.

.TP
-m, --min \fIMIN_PAGES\fR
    List files with at least \fIMIN_PAGES\fR or more pages in the cache.
The default is 1000.

.TP
-u, --numa
    Report per-NUMA allocation statistics. See description above. This is
disabled by default.

.TP
-k, --kexec
    Run in kexec kernel mode - i.e., when the production kernel crashes and
reboots into the kexec kernel. Here, the kdump kernel should be the same binary
as the production kernel.

.TP
-v, --version
    Display version information.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.TP
Please contact Oracle Linux Support to report any bugs for OLED tools.

.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
oled dentrycache
