.TH OLED MEMSTATE 8 "Jul 2021" "Oracle Linux Enhanced Diagnostics" "0.5"

.SH NAME
oled memstate - Captures and analyzes various memory usage statistics on the
running system.

.SH SYNOPSIS
oled memstate [-h] [-p [PID]] [-s [FILE]] [-n [FILE]] [-a] [-v] \
[-f [INTERVAL]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The memstate tool gathers data about memory usage on the system where it's run,
and analyzes the raw data to compute various statistics, including total memory
used by kernel/userspace allocations, a list of top 10 processes consuming most
memory (RSS), the 10 biggest slab caches, the top 10 swap space consumers, etc. It
can also display per-process memory usage (PSS), including how the allocations are
split across the NUMA nodes (if applicable). The tool checks, and prints warnings
for, any abnormalities detected; for instance -  excessive slab growth or large
page tables, NUMA imbalance, or invalid vm.min_free_kbytes config. The tool also
supports an offline mode to analyze slab and NUMA stats - see OPTIONS for more
details.

Note: RSS is not an accurate metric to measure per-process memory usage. For
more accurate values, use the -p option, which extracts per-process PSS values.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
-h, --help
    Displays a help message with all the valid options that
can be passed to the tool.

.TP
-p [PID], --pss [PID]
     Displays per-process memory usage, for the top 10 process
memory consumers. This gathers data from /proc/<pid>/smaps_rollup files and
sorts them, to display the most memory intensive processes on the system. It
displays the following metrics per process: PSS, RSS, private, swap-pss.
Use with -v/--verbose to get memory usage data for all processes on the system.
Note that this processing can be quite expensive w.r.t. time taken/CPU cycles,
esp. if run on a heavily-loaded system. Therefore, it is not recommended to
invoke this option (with or without -v/--verbose - that does not matter) too
often. If a process's pid is passed as input, this option will display the
memory mappings and usage summary for that process only, extracted from
/proc/<pid>/smaps file.

.TP
-s [FILE], --slab [FILE]
     Analyzes/displays slab usage. It takes an optional file
input, which should contain the output of 'cat /proc/slabinfo'. This can be
used to analyze the slab usage on another system offline. To display the
slab usage on the current/running system, simply omit the file input. This
option can also be combined with -v/--verbose, which will display all slab
caches, without which it will display 10 biggest slab caches. This data is
gathered from /proc/slabinfo.

.TP
-n [FILE], --numa [FILE]
    Analyzes/displays NUMA stats. It extracts per-NUMA node
meminfo data from /sys/devices/system/node/nodeX/meminfo. When combined with
-v/--verbose, it also walks /proc/<pid>/numa_maps for all processes on the
system and computes their total memory allocations on each NUMA node, and
displays them in a sorted fashion. Note that this processing can be quite
expensive w.r.t. time taken/CPU cycles, esp. if run on a heavily-loaded system.
So it is not recommended to invoke -n/--numa with -v/--verbose too often.

It also takes an optional file input (this can be used for offline processing),
which should contain the contents of /proc/*/numa_maps files as well as
/proc/*/comm files. One way to generate this input file is using this shell
script:

PROCS=/proc/*; for p in $PROCS; do COMM=$(cat $p/comm); \
	MAPS=$(cat $p/numa_maps); echo "$COMM:"; echo "$MAPS"; done

and redirecting it to a file. This file can be passed as input, with
-n, to analyze and display per-NUMA node memory allocation statistics for each
process.

.TP
-a, --all
    Displays all data. This option displays a basic memory usage summary,
plus the biggest slab caches, the top swap space consumers along with the NUMA
stats summary. If combined with -v/--verbose, it also checks/displays per-process
memory use, but this can be an expensive operation. See -p/--pss for more
details.

.TP
-v, --verbose
    Verbose data capture; this should be combined with other options.

.TP
-f [INTERVAL], --frequency [INTERVAL]
    Interval at which data should be collected periodically.
The default is 30 seconds; the user can pass in a different interval (in
seconds) as an optional parameter for this option. Note that the lowest valid
interval value is 5 seconds.

This option can be combined with most of the options above to capture desired
data periodically. The data will be written to the file
/var/oled/memstate/memstate.log which is rotated and compressed, by logrotate.
Each file can grow to a max size of 20 MB, and at most 20 files are retained.

After compresssion, the size of /var/oled/memstate/ directory on disk will be
around 20 - 40 MB. The tool tries not to fill up the partition, so it checks
before running if there is at least 50 MB available in that file system and if
the disk utilization is <= 85%. If not, it will exit with an error message.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.TP
Please contact Oracle Linux Support to report any bugs for OLED tools.
